Abstract


Breast Cancer is one of the many types of cancers that have been detected. According to the World Health statistics, more females are detected with breast cancer when compared to their male counterparts. On average, every 2 minutes a woman is diagnosed with breast cancer and 1 woman will die of breast cancer every 13 minutes. Every 1 woman in 8 is probable to be diagnosed with breast cancer in their lifetime. The deaths that were recorded in the year 2017 due to breast cancer were accounted to be a staggering no of 611,625. 
Despite such grime statistics it is one of the curable cancers if detected in the early stages; thus, there have been various attempts to derive a system which can help in early detection of this cancer. 

This research is aimed at evaluating the efficiency of different Machine Learning algorithms for detection of Breast Cancer in patients as a part of Computer Aided Detection (CAD). For the implementation of this research Breast Cancer Wisconsin (Diagnostic) Data Set has been used. This data is based on different features that are significant in detection of breast cancer in an individual. The dataset was then operated on by Machine Learning algorithms such as KNN, SVM, Naïve Bayes, Linear Regression, etc using R. After implementation, it was observed that SVM stands to be the most efficient algorithm with high accuracy and sensitivity level of detection when compared to other algorithms. Given this, it can be effective to deploy SVM algorithm for accurate prediction of breast cancer based on its distinctive classification of data points and comparing various hyper planes to determine the relation between various parameters.
